
# Data for "Molecular and mineral responses of corals grown under artificial Calcite Sea conditions" Conci et al. 2024 Geobiology

## Description

This repository contains the supplementary material for the following publication: 
Conci, N., Griesshaber, E., Rivera-Vicéns, R. E., Schmahl, W. W., Vargas, S., & Wörheide, G. (2024). Molecular and mineral responses of corals grown under artificial Calcite Sea conditions. Geobiology, 22(1), e12586. DOI: [10.1111/gbi.12586](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gbi.12586)

<br>

## Repository Content


**S.Mat 1:** salt composition used to prepare all three artifical seawaters (mMg:MCa of ratio 5.2, 2.5 and 1.5).  


**S.Mat 2:** the DESeq2 (package version 1.24.0, R version 3.6.0) script, and required dependencies, used for the gene expression analysis.
<br>
  
**S.Mat 3**: this folder contains gene expression analysis output files. For each species, table files with the expression data (csv format) and list of differentially expressed genes (Fasta format) are provided. The former include one file for the control vs. treatment mMg:MCa 2.5 and one for control vs. treatment 1.5. Here, positive log fold change values indicate underexpression in treatment, while negative values refers to genes overexpressed in treatment conditions. 
  
  
**S.Mat 4**: this folder contains all the datasets (CSV format) and the R script (R version 3.6.0) used to generate the mineral grain plots. Within each species folder, the "Raw Files" folder includes all dataset directly generated by  Tango 5.12 based on the EBSD data. Datasets included in the "Datasets for plots" folder also contain the additional variables (i.e., minor axis, log transformed grain area and log transformed major axis) used to generate the plots in S.Fig 2 and S.Fig 3. 
  
 <br> 
  
## Funding

The study was supported by the German Research Foundation (DFG) grant “MINORCA” (Project Numbers Wo896/18-1 and Va1146-2/1) and by LMU Munich’s Institutional Strategy LMUexcellent within the framework of the German Excellence Initiative.
